Title: Project 1 — Design Project Proposal

----

Text: *Proposal Document due Class 10 (30% of Fall term grade)*

The key concepts of the Design Proposal will be presented in person by each student as a Live Proposal Presentation in Class 10 in the Fall. The specific format requirements of the Live Presentation will be described by the Course Director in class.

The Design Proposal is the creative strategy for the Design Project(s) students will execute in the Winter term. Based on the research discoveries documented in the Research Proposal, students will identify and define a design challenge. The Design Proposal outlines the methods to deliver this strategy in a clear and viable way with original, engaging creative concepts.

The Design Proposal must answer the following questions:
— who is it for?
— what am I going to do?
— why am I going to do it?
— how am I going to do it?

The Design Proposal must include supporting documentation of project details, including content sources and development, analysis of related issues, technical considerations and a timeline for delivery describing major milestones. The Design Proposal should include the following sections:
<blockquote>1. Title page
2. Contents page
3. Project Statement –demonstrate link to primary
research
4. Objectives – Communication objectives, experiential
objectives
5. User Definition – demographic, psychographic,
personas
6. Functionality
7. Description of Deliverables
8. Primary Research</blockquote>

The Project Proposal will be reviewed by the Course Director and evaluated using the following criteria:
— Is the proposed project suitable for 4000 level investigation?
— Is the student capable of completing this workload on both a quantitative and qualitative level?
— Does the department and/or the student have access to the necessary technical and academic resources to complete this work?
— Are the projects and related design activities defined in enough detail to adequately evaluate this proposal and reflect the student’s grasp of the depth and range of each project?

The Design Proposal Document will be evaluated
using the following criteria:
— 10% Title, Contents and Project Statement
— 10% Objectives
— 25% User Definition
— 10% Functionality
— 10% Description of Deliverables
— 35% Primary Research